

 








EMPLOYEE 
HANDBOOK








October 13, 2022


TABLE OF CONTENTS

TABLE OF CONTENTS……………………………………………………………………………………………………………….2

WELCOME		4

INTRODUCTION	5

OUR COMPANY..	6

EMPLOYEE ACKNOWLEDGMENT FORM	7

EMPLOYMENT POLICIES	8
	Nature of Employment	8
	Employee Relations	8
	Equal Employment Opportunity	8
	Immigration Law Compliance	9
	Employment Applications	9
	Employment Reference Checks	9
	Performance Evaluation	9
	Employment Categories	10
	Outside Employment	10
	Conflicts of Interest	11
	New Technology	11
	Non-Disclosure	11
	Employee Data Changes	12

COMPENSATION AND BENEFITS PROGRAMS	12
	Time keeping	12
	Work Schedules	13
	Rest and Meal Periods	13
	Overtime	13
	Paydays	14
	Benefits	14
	Retirement Program	14
	Health Insurance	15
	Section 125 Plan	15
	Life Insurance	15
	Paid Time Off (PTO)	16
	Holidays	17
	Social Security	18
	Workers’ Compensation Insurance	18	





TABLE OF CONTENTS

SECTION									    	 PAGE

COMPENSATION AND BENEFIT PACKAGE (Cont’d)
	Business Travel Expenses	18
	Auto Mileage Reimbursement	19
	Safety Glasses and Safety Shoe Reimbursement………………………………………………………. 19

LEAVE OF ABSENCE	19
	Family Medical Leave Act (FMLA)	19	
	Military Leave……………………………………………………………………………………………………………26
	Bereavement Days	26
	Jury Duty	26
	Employment Termination	27
	Return of Property	27

COMPANY WORK RULES	27
	Employee Conduct and Work Rules	27
	Drug and Alcohol Use	28
	Harassment Policy	28
	Sexual Harassment	29
	Complaint Procedure	29		
	Threats and Violence	30
	Smoking	30
	Attendance and Punctuality	30
	Weather Emergencies……………………………………………………………………………………………….31
	Personal Appearance	31
	Bribes, Kick-Backs and Other Illegal Payments…………………………………………………………. 31
	Technology………………………………………………………………………………………………………………. 31
	Office Equipment	31
	E-mail and Voice Mail	32
	Internet……………………………………………………………………………………………………………………. 33
	Cell Phones………………………………………………………………………………………………………………. 33
	Solicitation	33
	Problem Resolution Procedure	34
	
SAFETY……………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………….34
	Safety	34
	Shop Safety	34
	Tooling	35
	Use of Equipment and Vehicles	35



WELCOME




Welcome to Autotec Corporation.  We are happy that you have joined our team.  We value the 
services that each and every one of our employees performs as part of our team effort.

Competition necessitates that we provide high quality services and products at a fair price and on 
schedule.  You are the key to the future of Autotec and to your own personal and family security.

It is our desire to provide you with a pleasant working environment so that your place as an Autotec 
team member will be a rewarding experience.

Sincerely,



THOMAS P. BALLAY
President



INTRODUCTION

This handbook is designed to acquaint you with Autotec and provide you with information about 
working conditions, employee benefits and some of the policies affecting your employment.  You should 
read, understand, and comply with all provisions of the handbook.  It describes many of your 
responsibilities as an employee and outlines the programs developed by Autotec to benefit employees.  
One of our objectives is to provide a work environment that is conducive to both personal and 
professional growth.

No handbook can anticipate every circumstance or question about policy.  As Autotec continues to 
grow, the need may arise to change policies described in the handbook.  With the exception of at-will 
employment, Autotec therefore reserves the right to revise, supplement, or rescind any policies or 
portion of the handbook from time to time as it deems appropriate, in its sole and absolute discretion.  
Employees will, of course, be notified of such changes as they occur.



OUR COMPANY

Autotec Corporation consists of experienced engineers, technicians, skilled shop personnel and 
supporting office staff.  Our work, although diversified, is primarily in the development and design of 
custom designed machines and material handling systems.  This work offers customers the opportunity 
to maintain a position of leadership in a highly competitive world market.

Our services vary from strictly design services from our customers' specifications to our own basic 
conceptions: designing, building and installing.  Due to the nature of our business, the people we work 
with and who often visit us are mostly engineers and management personnel.

Our company operates with a simple set of five core values.  These values define not only how we 
conduct our business, but more importantly they define the type of employees and team members we 
develop.

ANALYTICAL, LOGIC-BASED PROBLEM SOLVING
We gather facts, define the real problem, and then go about a systematic method of solution 
implementation.  Problem-solving, as a skill set, is part of our base competency as a company.  We hold 
this cultural value as a high priority for all employees. 

CLIENT-FOCUSED
Our goal is to integrate ourselves into our customer’s business.  Hence, our customer’s problem 
becomes our problem. 

DO THE RIGHT THING
Autotec and our employees are a professional organization.  We follow a strict ethical code of working 
to high standards.  We honor our commitments, and we do what we say we are going to do.  

PERSEVERANCE
Our employee’s honor their jobs and their responsibilities until we are complete.  We “show up with our 
lunch pails and we stick with it until the job is done.”  This is a simple concept, but it is defining for our 
company and our employees.  It is part of our DNA. 

TEAMWORK
Success through collaboration. The combined action of a group of people especially when effective and 
efficient.











EMPLOYEE ACKNOWLEDGMENT FORM


The employee Handbook describes important information about Autotec Corporation, and I 
understand that I should consult the Director of Human Resources regarding any questions not 
answered in the handbook.

Since the information, policies, and benefits described here are necessarily subject to change, I 
acknowledge that revisions to the handbook may occur.  All such changes will be communicated 
through official notices, and I understand that revised information may supersede, modify, or 
eliminate existing policies.  Only the President and/or Vice President of Autotec Engineering have the 
ability to adopt any revisions to the policies in this handbook.

I have entered into my employment relationship with Autotec Corporation voluntarily and 
acknowledge that there is no specified length of employment.  Accordingly, either Autotec 
Engineering or I can terminate the relationship at will, with or without cause, at any time.

Furthermore, I acknowledge that by signing this form below that this handbook is neither a contract 
of employment nor a legal document.  I have received the handbook, and I understand that it is my 
responsibility to read and comply with the policies contained in this handbook and any revisions 
made to it.








												
EMPLOYEE'S SIGNATURE   			                                           DATE



								
EMPLOYEE'S NAME (TYPED OR PRINTED)


EMPLOYMENT POLICIES

NATURE OF EMPLOYMENT

This handbook is intended to provide employees with a general understanding of our personnel 
policies.  Employees are encouraged to familiarize themselves with the contents of this handbook, 
for it will answer many common questions concerning employment with Autotec Corporation.

However, this handbook cannot anticipate every situation or answer every question about 
employment.  It is not an employment contract and is not intended to create contractual obligations 
of any kind.  Neither the employee nor Autotec is bound to continue the employment relationship if 
either chooses, at its will, to end the relationship at any time.

In order to retain necessary flexibility in the administration of policies and procedures, Autotec 
reserves the right to change, revise, or eliminate any of the policies and/or benefits described in this 
handbook with the exception of at-will employment that can only be changed in writing and signed 
by the CEO.

EMPLOYEE RELATIONS

Autotec offers competitive working conditions, wages and benefits to its employees.  If an employee 
has any concerns in this area, he or she is strongly encouraged to voice those concerns openly and 
directly to their supervisor.

Our experience has shown that when employees work openly and directly with their supervisor, the 
work environment can be excellent, communications can be clear, and attitudes can be positive.

EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY

In order to provide equal employment and advancement opportunities to all individuals, 
employment decisions at Autotec will be based on merit, qualifications, and abilities for a given 
position.  Except where required or permitted by law, employment practices will not be influenced or 
affected by an applicant’s or employee's race, color, religion, sex, national origin, age, disability, or 
any other characteristic protected by law.

Autotec will make reasonable accommodations for qualified individuals with known disabilities 
unless doing so would result in an undue hardship.  This policy governs all aspects of employment, 
including selection, job assignment, compensation, discipline, termination, and access to benefits 
and training.

Any employees with questions or concerns about any type of discrimination in the workplace are 
encouraged to immediately bring these issues to the attention of the Director of Human Resources. 
Anyone found, after appropriate investigation, to have engaged in any type of unlawful 
discrimination will be subject to disciplinary action, up to and including termination of employment.  
This policy applies to workplace conduct, conduct at company functions, and to employees at all 
levels and positions within the company.

IMMIGRATION LAW COMPLIANCE

Autotec is committed to employing only United States citizens and aliens who are authorized to work 
in the United States and does not unlawfully discriminate on the basis of citizenship or national 
origin.

In compliance with the Immigration Reform and Control Act of 1986, each new employee, as a 
condition of employment, must complete the Employment Eligibility Verification Form I-9 and 
present documentation establishing identity and employment eligibility.  Former employees who are 
re-hired must also complete the form if they have not completed an I-9 with Autotec or if their 
previous I-9 is no longer retained.

EMPLOYMENT APPLICATIONS

Autotec relies upon the accuracy of information contained in the employment application, as well as 
the accuracy of other data presented throughout the hiring process and employment.  Any 
misrepresentations, falsifications, or material omissions in any of this information or data may result 
in Autotec's exclusion of the individual from further consideration for employment or, if the person 
has been hired, termination of employment.

EMPLOYMENT REFERENCE CHECKS

To ensure that individuals who join Autotec are well qualified and have a strong potential to be 
productive and successful, it is the policy of Autotec to check the employment references of all 
applicants.

The Director of Human Resources will respond in writing only to those reference check inquiries, for 
former employees, that are submitted in writing (former employees must provide a written 
authorization for Autotec to release any employment information).  Responses to such inquiries will 
confirm dates of employment and positions held.  No employment data will be released without a 
written authorization and release signed by the individual who is the subject of the inquiry.

PERFORMANCE AND BEHAVIOR EVALUATION

Supervisors and employees are strongly encouraged to discuss job performance, behavior and goals 
on an informal, day-to-day basis.  Additional formal reviews are conducted to provide both 
management and employees the opportunity to discuss job tasks, identify and correct weaknesses, 
encourage and recognize strengths, and discuss positive, purposeful approaches for meeting goals.

Evaluations are scheduled annually, focusing on job related criteria.  Periodic merit based pay 
adjustments are awarded by Autotec, separate from evaluations in an effort to recognize 
outstanding employee performance and behavior. The decision to award such an adjustment is 
dependent upon numerous factors, including, but not limited to, the information documented by the 
formal review process.

EMPLOYMENT CATEGORIES

It is the intent of Autotec to clarify the definitions of employment classifications so the employees 
understand their employment status and benefit eligibility.  Each employee is designated as either 
NON-EXEMPT or EXEMPT from federal and state wage and labor laws.  NON-EXEMPT employees are 
entitled to overtime pay under the specific provisions of federal and state laws.  EXEMPT employees 
are excluded from specific provisions of federal and state wage and hour laws.

In addition to the above categories, each employee will belong to one other employment category:

REGULAR FULL-TIME employees are those who are not in a temporary status, have completed thirty 
(30) calendar days of service with the Company and who are regularly scheduled to work forty (40) or 
more hours (4 10 hours or 5 8 hours full days) each week (except where federal or state law dictates 
otherwise).  Generally, they are eligible for Autotec's benefit package, subject to the terms, 
conditions, and limitations of each benefit program.

REGULAR PART-TIME employees are those who are not in a temporary status, have completed thirty 
(30) calendar days of service with the Company and who are regularly scheduled to work less than 
thirty (30) hours each week (except where federal or state law dictates otherwise).  Regular part-
time employees are eligible for benefits sponsored by Autotec, subject to the terms, conditions, and 
limitations of each benefit program.  Vacation and sick leave are pro-rated as a percentage of full-
time benefits.

TEMPORARY employees are those who are hired to temporarily supplement the work force or to 
assist in the completion of a specific project.  Employment assignments in this category are usually of 
a limited duration.  Employment beyond any initially stated period does not in any way imply a 
change in employment status.  Temporary employees retain that status unless and until notified of a 
change.  While temporary employees receive all legally mandated benefits (such as Social Security 
and Workers' Compensation insurance), they are ineligible for all of Autotec's other benefit 
programs.

CONTRACT employees are those hired through a temporary agency to help on a specific project, 
usually for a specific duration.  Contract employees are employees of the temporary agency and are, 
therefore, covered under their Workers' Compensation, Social Security programs, and any other 
benefits as negotiated with the temporary agency.

OUTSIDE EMPLOYMENT

Employees should consider the impact that outside employment may have on their health and 
physical endurance.  All employees will be judged by the same performance standards and will be 
subject to Autotec's scheduling demands, regardless of any existing outside work requirements.

Outside employment that constitutes a conflict of interest is prohibited.  Employees may not receive 
any income or material gain from individuals outside Autotec for materials produced or services 
rendered while performing their jobs at Autotec.

CONFLICTS OF INTEREST

Employees have an obligation to conduct business within guidelines that prohibit actual or potential 
conflicts of interest.  This policy establishes only the framework within which Autotec wishes the 
business to operate.  The purpose of these guidelines is to provide general direction so employees 
can seek further clarification on issues related to the subject of acceptable standards of operation.

An actual or potential conflict of interest occurs when an employee is in a position to influence a 
decision that may result in a personal gain for that employee or for a relative, as a result of Autotec's 
business dealings.  For the purposes of this policy, a relative is any person who is related by blood or 
marriage, or whose relationship with the employee is similar to that of persons who are related by 
blood or marriage.

No "presumption of guilt" is created by the mere existence of a relationship with outside firms.  
However, if an employee has any influence on transactions involving purchases, contracts, or leases, 
it is imperative that he or she disclose to the President or Vice President of Autotec as soon as 
possible the existence of any actual or potential conflict of interest so that safeguards can be 
established to protect all parties.

Personal gain may result not only in cases where an employee or relative has a significant ownership 
in a firm with which Autotec does business but also when an employee or relative receives any 
kickback, bribe, substantial gift, or special consideration as a result of any transaction or business 
dealings involving Autotec.

The materials, products, designs, plans, ideas, and data of Autotec are the property of Autotec and 
should never be given to an outside firm or individual except through normal channels and with 
appropriate authorization.  Any improper transfer of material or disclosure of information, even 
though it is not apparent that an employee has personally gained by such action, constitutes 
unacceptable conduct.  Any employee who participates in such a practice will be subject to 
disciplinary action, up to and including termination of employment.

NEW TECHNOLOGY

Because Autotec is engaged in significant design work, any improvements, inventions, designs, or 
new creations conceived by employees of the company during the course of their work are 
considered to be and constitute property of the company. 

NON-DISCLOSURE

The protection of confidential business information and trade secrets is vital to the interests and the 
success of Autotec.  Such confidential information includes, but is not limited to, the following 
examples:

         Customer Project Information
Compensation data of other employees 
Customer lists
Financial information
Marketing strategies
New materials research
Pending projects and proposals
Proprietary production processes
Research and development strategies
Technological data
Technological prototypes

Any employee who discloses trade secrets or confidential business information will be subject to 
disciplinary action, up to and including possible termination of employment and legal action, even if 
he or she does not actually benefit from the disclosed information.

EMPLOYEE DATA CHANGES

It is the responsibility of each employee to promptly notify Autotec of any changes in personnel data.  
Personal mailing addresses, telephone numbers, number and name of dependents, individuals to be 
contacted in the event of an emergency, educational accomplishments, and other such status reports 
should be accurate and current at all times.


COMPENSATION AND BENEFIT PROGRAMS

TIME KEEPING

Accurately recording time worked is the responsibility of every non-exempt employee.  Federal and 
state laws require Autotec to keep an accurate record of time worked in order to calculate employee 
pay and benefits.  Time worked is all the time actually spent on the job performing assigned duties.

Non-exempt employees should accurately record the hours they work and the projects charged.  They 
should also record departure from work for personal reasons.  The employee's supervisor must always 
approve overtime work before it is performed.  Sick leave and vacation time taken should also be 
recorded.

Exempt employees should report any sick or vacation time taken to a supervisor on a paid leave form.  
Exempt employees are also responsible to accurately complete a production hours report which records 
the hours they work and the projects charged.

Time is required to be turned in daily for shop personnel, engineering, sales personnel and office 
personnel unless told otherwise.

Falsifying time records may result in disciplinary action, up to and including termination of employment.

It is the employee's responsibility to ensure the accuracy of all time recorded and projects charged.  The 
supervisor will review and then initial the time record before submitting it for payroll processing.  In 
addition, if corrections or modifications are made to the time record, both the employee and the 
supervisor must verify the accuracy of the changes by initialing the time record.

WORK SCHEDULES
The regular, work schedules may be one of the following:
Shop						6:00 am through 2:45 PM
Engineering and Office			8:00 am through 5:00 PM

Supervisors will advise employees of the times their schedules will normally begin and end.  Staffing 
needs and operational demands may necessitate variations in starting and ending times, as well as 
variations in the total hours that may be scheduled each day and week. Supervisors may on a non-
precedent setting basis, adjust scheduled work hours to accommodate special circumstances including 
special employee needs. 

REST AND MEAL PERIODS

Each workday, Shop employees are provided rest periods of fifteen (15) minutes in length at the time 
designated by the Plant Manager.  See example below. To the extent possible, rest periods will be 
provided in the middle of work periods.  Engineering and office personnel do not take scheduled rest 
periods but are allowed short work breaks as individual work loads permit.  Engineering and office 
personnel are not to disturb shop personnel during non-break periods or at other times unless related 
to a project.  Since break time is counted and paid as time worked, employees must not be absent from 
their workstations beyond the allotted rest period time.

Employees are provided with one meal period of forty-five (45) minutes in length each workday.  
Supervisors will schedule meal periods to accommodate operating requirements.  Non-exempt 
employees will be relieved of all active responsibilities and restrictions during meal periods and will not 
be compensated for that time.

SHOP HOURS
There is one fifteen (15) minute break and lunch during an 8 hour day. A second fifteen (15) minute 
break is added when working a 10 hour shift. 

8 hour day
10 hour day
Start: 6:00am
Start: 6:00am
Break: 9:00 – 9:15am
Break: 9:00 – 9:15am
Lunch: 12:00 – 12:45pm
Lunch: 12:00 – 12:45pm
End of Shift: 2:45pm
Break: 3:00 – 3:15pm

End of Shift: 4:45pm

OVERTIME

Non-exempt employees will be compensated at one and one-half (1 ½ ) times straight time rate for all 
hours worked over forty (40) in a work week.  Saturday, Sunday and scheduled holiday hours worked 
will be considered overtime and will be compensated for at one and one-half (1 ½ ) time rate. Previously 
scheduled paid leave time will be considered hours worked for overtime calculation.  

Salaried exempt employees will be compensated at straight time for all hours worked over forty (40) in a 
work week.  Saturday, Sunday and scheduled holiday hours worked will be considered overtime and will 
be compensated for at straight time.  Previously scheduled paid leave time will be considered hours 
worked for overtime calculation. 

Salaried exempt who are designated “on call” will receive straight time for a minimum of two (2) hours 
and for actual hours worked beyond the first two (2) hours. “On call” time will be considered for 
weekdays between the hours of 8pm and 5am, weekends and holidays.

Failure to work scheduled overtime or overtime worked (including exempt) without prior authorization 
from the supervisor may result in disciplinary action, up to and including termination of employment.

PAYDAYS

The pay period for employees is based on a biweekly period, Monday to Sunday.  Employees are paid 
every other Friday for the previous two- (2) week period. In the event that a regularly scheduled payday 
falls on a day off (e.g., holiday), employees will receive pay on the last day of work before the regularly 
scheduled payday.  Should you lose your paycheck, please notify the Director of Human Resources 
immediately so that payment can be stopped and a new check issued.

BENEFITS

Regular employees who have completed their first 30 days of employment at Autotec are provided a 
wide range of benefits.  A number of the programs (such as Social Security, Workers' Compensation, 
state disability, and unemployment insurance) cover all employees in the manner prescribed by law.  
Employees are encouraged to read all of their benefit booklets to fully understand the programs.  All of 
the benefit programs are governed by specific plan documents that are briefly summarized in the 
employee manual.  The terms and provision of the various plan documents will control any summary 
description that appears in the manual.  In addition, we encourage you to contact the Director of Human 
Resources with any questions or comments you may have regarding your benefits.

Benefits eligibility is dependent upon a variety of factors, including employee classification.  The 
following benefit programs are available to eligible employees:

RETIREMENT PROGRAM

The Company has established a 401K / Profit Sharing Plan for employees.  Employees may elect to 
contribute a portion of their pre-tax income to the 401K plan toward their retirement.  

The Company contributes to the Plan based upon profitability.  Eligible employees become 100% vested 
in the profit sharing portion of the program after the completion of six (6) years of service with the 
Company.

Please see the benefit booklets and documentation for specific information about eligibility and other 
details regarding the retirement program.  The terms and provisions of the Retirement Program plan 
documents will control any summary description that appears in this manual.  Employees rights under 
the program are defined by the precise language of the plan document rather than any summary 
description contained in this handbook.

HEALTH INSURANCE

Autotec offers each regular full-time employee Major Medical, Dental and Vision coverage.  The 
Company shares in the cost of this benefit with eligible employees by paying 80% of the applicable 
premiums for both the employee and his/her dependents.  The employee may sign a waiver of 
insurance benefits if he/she does not wish to be covered by Autotec's plan.  

Please see the benefit booklet for specific plan information. The terms and provisions of the Health 
Insurance plan documents will control any summary description that appears in this manual.  Employees 
rights under the program are defined by the precise language of the plan document rather than any 
summary description contained in this handbook.

SECTION 125 PLAN

After completing the 30 days of employment, Autotec offers an optional Section 125 plan that allows 
the employee contribution to health insurance premiums to be paid with pre-tax wages, thereby 
reducing taxable income.

The terms and provisions of the Section 125 Plan documents will control any summary description that 
appears in this manual.  Employees rights under the program are defined by the precise language of the 
plan document rather than any summary description contained in this handbook.

LIFE INSURANCE & LONG TERM DISABILITY

After completion of 30 days of employment, full-time employees are provided with life insurance 
coverage approximately three times the employee's regular earnings up to a $200,000.00 limit.

Employees are also provided long term disability coverage.  If, due to an illness or injury lasting more 
than 90 days, an employee is unable to work on a full-time basis, he/she may receive up to 60% of pre-
disability earnings each month.  If the disability continues, the employee will continue to receive this 
income until age 65, up to a $6,000.00 limit.  Please refer to the specific plan documents for benefits 
and definitions.  

The Company pays the entire cost of these benefits.  This insurance terminates upon separation from 
the Company.

Please see plan documents for specific details.  The terms and provisions of the Life Insurance and Long 
Term Disability Plan documents will control any summary description that appears in this manual.  
Employees rights under the program are defined by the precise language of the plan document rather 
than any summary description contained in this handbook.

The value of Life Insurance exceeding $50,000 is included in the gross income of the employee.  The 
taxable value of Life Insurance is called “imputed income” as employees are taxed as if they had 
received income equal to the taxable value of the coverage.

PAID TIME OFF - PTO

Autotec recognizes that employees need a scheduled time away from normal work duties for their 
personal well-being.  The company grants annual Personal Time Off (PTO) with pay to full-time 
employees who meet the following service requirements. 

	Length of Continuous Service			Eligible PTO
		    1-5 years*			 	144 hours
		 
           5-10 years*				184 hours			
                           
          10-20 years*			              224 hours
		
          20+ years				264 hours		
                           
          *unless previously negotiated

New employees receive PTO after six months of service. This time will be a prorated amount based on 
remainder of the calendar year on the six-month anniversary date.

PTO time may be used as vacation or in the event an employee must be absent from work due to illness 
or personal business.

PTO requests require advance approval from the employee’s supervisor. PTO may be taken at any time 
during the year after eligibility with the following provisions:
	    
*	Pay for PTO time will be at the employee’s base rate of pay.
*	Paid PTO time will be considered as time worked for the purpose of computing overtime.
*	A holiday observed by the company that falls during the PTO period will be considered as a paid 
holiday and not PTO time.  This day of PTO may be taken at another time as approved.
*	Non-exempt employee must work the regularly scheduled workdays before and after the paid 
PTO period in order to be eligible to receive PTO pay.
*	Job requirements will always have priority over PTO schedules.
*	Length of service will be considered in the event a conflict of PTO schedules arises.
*	PTO must be planned in conjunction with those of fellow employees and PTO time will be 
granted on a first-come, first-served basis.
*	If an employee leaves Autotec within the first two (2) years of employment or leaves without 
giving at least two (2) weeks notification, they will forfeit all unused PTO time. 
*	Upon termination after two years of employment, employees will be paid for unused PTO time 
that has been earned through the last day of work. This does not include rollover time from the 
previous year.  If the employee’s resignation or separation from the company occurs within the 
first quarter of the calendar year, 25% of his remaining PTO will be considered earned for that 
calendar year.  If the employee’s resignation or separation from the company occurs within the 
second quarter of the calendar year, 50% of his remaining PTO will be considered earned for 
that calendar year.  If the employee’s resignation or separation from the company occurs within 
the third quarter of the calendar year, 75% of his remaining PTO will be considered earned for 
the calendar year.  100% of the employee’s remaining PTO will be considered earned for the 
calendar year if the employee’s resignation or separation from the company occurs within the 
fourth quarter of the calendar year.  Any earned PTO paid to the employee will be included with 
the employee’s final check.
*	Autotec Corporation reserves the right to set aside certain times of the year when PTO time 
cannot be taken.
*	PTO time may be carried over to the next calendar year up to 40 hours max. If you have more 
than 40 hours of unused PTO time it must be used prior to the end of the calendar year. You 
must request to carry over a maximum of 40 hours or less of PTO time on the company “Staff 
PTO Carryover Request” form and have it signed and approved by your immediate supervisor 
and executive supervisor.
*	No pay will be given for any unused PTO time at the end of the year.
*	There is no provision for pay in lieu of earned PTO except at termination.
*	PTO time may not be used to replace lost wages due to an unpaid suspension for disciplinary 
reasons. 


HOLIDAYS

Autotec will grant paid holiday time off to non-exempt employees who have completed their first 30 
days of employment on the holidays listed below (No Holiday waiting period for exempt):

New Year's Day
Memorial Day
Independence Day
Labor Day
Thanksgiving, and the Friday following Thanksgiving
Christmas - Offices will be closed for the Christmas holiday as follows:
Sunday or Monday	Friday afternoon and all day Monday
Tuesday		All day Monday and Tuesday
Wednesday		Tuesday afternoon and all day Wednesday
Thursday		All day Thursday and Friday
Friday		Thursday afternoon and all day Friday
Saturday		All day Friday

Holiday pay will be calculated based on the employee's straight-time pay rate.  To be eligible for holiday 
pay, non-exempt employees must work or be on previously scheduled paid leave the last scheduled day 
immediately preceding and the first scheduled day immediately following the holiday, unless prior 
arrangements have been approved by your supervisor.

A recognized holiday that falls on a Saturday will be observed on the preceding Friday.  A recognized 
holiday that falls on a Sunday will be observed on the following Monday.  If a recognized holiday falls 
during an eligible employee's paid vacation, holiday pay will be provided in lieu of an additional day of 
vacation.

SOCIAL SECURITY

Social Security provides disability, survivor, and retirement benefits to individuals who work a certain 
number of years.  Autotec shares in the funding of your Social Security benefits by matching your regular 
contributions (through payroll deduction) to the program.

WORKERS' COMPENSATION INSURANCE

Autotec provides a comprehensive Workers' Compensation insurance program through the State of 
Ohio, at no cost to employees.  This program covers an injury or illness sustained in the course of 
employment that requires medical, surgical, or hospital treatment.

Employees who sustain work-related injuries or illnesses should inform their supervisor and immediately 
fill out an accident report form.  Should the injured employee require medical attention, the accident 
report form should be taken and given to the physician for his documentation and returned to the 
Director of Human Resources as soon as possible.  No matter how minor an on-the-job injury may 
appear, it is important that it be reported immediately.  This will enable an eligible employee to qualify 
for coverage as quickly as possible.

Neither Autotec nor the insurance carrier will be liable for the payment of Workers' Compensation 
benefits for injuries that occur during an employee's voluntary participation in any off-duty recreational, 
social, or athletic activity sponsored by Autotec.

BUSINESS TRAVEL EXPENSES

Autotec will reimburse employees for reasonable business travel expenses incurred while on 
assignments away from the normal work location.  All business travel must be approved in advance by 
the employee's supervisor.

Employees whose travel plans have been approved should make all arrangements through the 
Company's designated travel representative.  When approved, Autotec will reimburse the actual costs of 
travel, lodging, and other expenses directly related to accomplishing business travel objectives.  Meals 
will be reimbursed on a per diem basis.  The current per diem (2019) is $60 for a full day and $30 for a 
day that begins after 1:00pm or ends prior to 1:00pm.  Employees are expected to limit expenses by 
staying in company approved hotels and renting mid-sized cars.

Any employee who is involved in an accident while traveling on business must promptly report the 
incident to the immediate supervisor.

Cash advances to cover reasonable anticipated expenses may be made to employees, after travel has 
been approved.  Employees should submit a written request to their supervisor when travel advances 
are needed.

When travel is completed, the employee should submit completed travel expense reports within three 
(3) days.  Receipts for all expenses should accompany reports.  Employees should contact their 
supervisor for guidance and assistance on procedures related to travel arrangements, travel advances, 
expense reports, reimbursement for specific expenses, or any other business travel issues.

Abuse of the Business Travel Expenses Policy, including falsifying expense reports to reflect costs not 
incurred by the employee, can be grounds for disciplinary action, up to and including termination of 
employment.

AUTO MILEAGE REIMBURSEMENT

Employees will be reimbursed for automobile mileage incurred conducting business on behalf of 
Autotec.  Reimbursement will not be made for normal commuting to and from the Company.  Mileage 
should be recorded and submitted weekly to your supervisor on your time sheet and charged to an 
appropriate project number.  Reimbursable mileage is made at the IRS standard rate.  The IRS standard 
rate is updated annually.

SAFETY GLASSES AND SAFETY SHOE REIMBURSEMENT

Employees will be reimbursed for prescription safety glasses up to a maximum of $150 every 2 years. 
Employees will be reimbursed for steel toe industrial safety shoes/boots up to $100 every 2 years. 
Receipts must be submitted for reimbursement.   


LEAVE OF ABSENCE 
FAMILY MEDICAL LEAVE ACT (FMLA) POLICY 
AUTOTEC, Corp. will comply with the Family and Medical Leave Act (FMLA) implementing Regulations as 
revised effective March 8, 2013. The company posts the mandatory FMLA Notice and upon hire provides 
all new employees with notices required by the U.S. Department of Labor (DOL) on Employee Rights and 
Responsibilities under the Family and Medical Act in the employee handbook.
The function of this policy is to provide employees with a general description of their FMLA rights. In the 
event of any conflict between this policy and the applicable law, employees will be afforded all rights 
required by law. 
If you have any questions, concerns, or disputes with this policy, you must contact the Human Resources 
Manager in writing.
 GENERAL PROVISIONS 
Under this policy, AUTOTEC, Corp. will grant up to 12 weeks (or up to 26 weeks of military caregiver 
leave to care for a covered service member or covered veteran with a serious injury or illness) during a 
12-month period to eligible employees. The leave may be paid, unpaid or a combination of paid and 
unpaid leave, depending on the circumstances of the leave and as specified in this policy. 

ELIGIBILITY 
To qualify to take family or medical leave under this policy, the employee must meet all of the following 
conditions: 
 1)   The employee must have worked for the company for 12 months or 52 weeks. The 12 months or 52 
weeks need not have been consecutive. Separate periods of employment will be counted, provided that 
the break in service does not exceed seven years. Separate periods of employment will be counted if the 
break in service exceeds seven years due to National Guard or Reserve military service obligations or 
when there is a written agreement, including a collective bargaining agreement, stating the employer’s 
intention to rehire the employee after the service break. For eligibility purposes, an employee will be 
considered to have been employed for an entire week even if the employee was on the payroll for only 
part of a week or if the employee is on leave during the week. 
 2)   The employee must have worked at least 1,250 hours during the12-month period immediately before 
the date when the leave is requested to commence. The principles established under the Fair Labor 
Standards Act (FLSA) determine the number of hours worked by an employee. The FLSA does not 
include time spent on paid or unpaid leave as hours worked. Consequently, these hours of leave should 
not be counted in determining the 1,250 hours eligibility test for an employee under FMLA. 
 3)   The employee must work in a worksite where 50 or more employees are employed by the company 
within 75 miles of that office or worksite. The distance is to be calculated by using available 
transportation by the most direct route. 
TYPE OF LEAVE COVERED 
To qualify as FMLA leave under this policy, the employee must be taking leave for one of the reasons 
listed below:  
1)	The birth of a child and in order to care for that child.
2)	The placement of a child for adoption or foster care and to care for the newly placed child.
3)	To care for a spouse, child or parent with a serious health condition (described below).
4)	The serious health condition (described below) of the employee.
An eligible employee may take leave because of a serious health condition that makes the employee 
unable to perform the functions of the employee's position. 
A serious health condition is defined as a condition that requires inpatient care at a hospital, hospice or 
residential medical care facility, including any period of incapacity or any subsequent treatment in 
connection with such inpatient care or a condition that requires continuing care by a licensed health 
care provider.
This policy covers illnesses of a serious and long-term nature, resulting in recurring or lengthy absences. 
Generally, a chronic or long-term health condition that would result in a period of three consecutive 
days of incapacity with the first visit to the health care provider within seven days of the onset of the 
incapacity and a second visit within 30 days of the incapacity would be considered a serious health 
condition. For chronic conditions requiring periodic health care visits for treatment, such visits must take 
place at least twice a year.  
Employees with questions about what illnesses are covered under this FMLA policy or under the 
company's sick leave policy are encouraged to consult with the Human Resources Manager. 
If an employee takes paid sick leave for a condition that progresses into a serious health condition and 
the employee requests unpaid leave as provided under this policy, the company may designate all or 
some portion of related leave taken as leave under this policy, to the extent that the earlier leave meets 
the necessary qualifications. 
5)   Qualifying exigency leave for families of members of the National Guard and Reserves when the 
covered military member is on active duty or called to active duty in support of a contingency 
operation.
An eligible employee whose spouse, son, daughter or parent either has been notified of an impending 
call or order to active military duty or who is already on active duty may take up to 12 weeks of leave for 
reasons related to or affected by the family member’s call-up or service. The qualifying exigency must be 
one of the following: 1) short-notice deployment, 2) military events and activities, 3) child care and 
school activities, 4) financial and legal arrangements, 5) counseling, 6) rest and recuperation, 7) post-
deployment activities and 8) additional activities that arise out of active duty, provided that the 
employer and employee agree, including agreement on timing and duration of the leave.
 The leave may commence as soon as the individual receives the call-up notice. (Son or daughter for this 
type of FMLA leave is defined the same as for child for other types of FMLA leave except that the person 
does not have to be a minor.) This type of leave would be counted toward the employee’s 12-week 
maximum of FMLA leave in a 12-month period.
6)   Military caregiver leave (also known as covered servicemember leave) to care for an ill or injured 
servicemember.
 	This leave may extend to up to 26 weeks in a single12-month period for an eligible employee to care for 
a spouse, son, daughter, parent or next of kin covered servicemember or covered veteran with a serious 
illness or injury incurred in the line of duty on active duty. Next of kin is defined as the closest blood 
relative of the injured or recovering servicemember. 
 AMOUNT OF LEAVE
An eligible employee can take up to 12 weeks for the FMLA circumstances (1) through (5) above under 
this policy during any 12-month period. The company will measure the 12-month period as a rolling 12-
month period measured backward from the date an employee uses any leave under this policy. Each 
time an employee takes leave, the company will compute the amount of leave the employee has taken 
under this policy in the last 12 months and subtract it from the 12 weeks of available leave, and the 
balance remaining is the amount the employee is entitled to take at that time.
An eligible employee can take up to 26 weeks for the FMLA circumstance (6) above (military caregiver 
leave) during a single 12-month period. For this military caregiver leave, the company will measure the 
12-month period as a rolling 12-month period measured forward. FMLA leave already taken for other 
FMLA circumstances will be deducted from the total of 26 weeks available. 
If a husband and wife both work for the company and each wishes to take leave for the birth of a child, 
adoption or placement of a child in foster care, or to care for a parent (but not a parent "in-law") with a 
serious health condition, the husband and wife may only take a combined total of 12 weeks of leave. If a 
husband and wife both work for the company and each wishes to take leave to care for a covered 
injured or ill service member, the husband and wife may only take a combined total of 26 weeks of 
leave.
 PROCEDURE FOR REQUESTING FMLA LEAVE 
All employees requesting FMLA leave must provide verbal or written notice of the need for the leave to 
the Human Resources Manager of AUTOTEC, Corp. Within five business days after the employee has 
provided this notice, the Human Resources Manager will complete and provide the employee with the 
DOL Notice of Eligibility and Rights.  When the need for the leave is foreseeable, the employee must 
provide the employer with at least 30 days' notice. When an employee becomes aware of a need for 
FMLA leave less than 30 days in advance, the employee must provide notice of the need for the leave 
either the same day or the next business day. When the need for FMLA leave is not foreseeable, the 
employee must comply with the company’s usual and customary notice and procedural requirements 
for requesting leave, absent unusual circumstances. 
 DESIGNATION OF FMLA LEAVE
Within five business days after the employee has submitted the appropriate certification form, the 
Human Resources Manager will complete and provide the employee with a written response to the 
employee’s request for FMLA leave using the DOL Designation Notice.
 CERTIFICATION FOR THE EMPLOYEE’S SERIOUS HEALTH CONDITION 
AUTOTEC, Corp. will require certification for the employee’s serious health condition. The employee 
must respond to such a request within 15 days of the request or provide a reasonable explanation for 
the delay. 
Failure to provide certification may result in a denial of continuation of leave. Medical certification will 
be provided using the DOL Certification of Health Care Provider for Employee’s Serious Health 
Condition. 
AUTOTEC, Corp. may directly contact the employee’s health care provider for verification or clarification 
purposes using a health care professional, an HR professional, leave administrator or management 
official. AUTOTEC, Corp. will not use the employee’s direct supervisor for this contact. Before the 
company makes this direct contact with the health care provider, the employee will be a given an 
opportunity to resolve any deficiencies in the medical certification. In compliance with HIPAA Medical 
Privacy Rules, the company will obtain the employee’s permission for clarification of individually 
identifiable health information. 
AUTOTEC, Corp. has the right to ask for a second opinion if it has reason to doubt the certification. 
AUTOTEC, Corp. will pay for the employee to get a certification from a second doctor, which the 
company will select. 
AUTOTEC, Corp. may deny FMLA leave to an employee who refuses to release relevant medical records 
to the health care provider designated to provide a second or third opinion. If necessary to resolve a 
conflict between the original certification and the second opinion, AUTOTEC, Corp. will require the 
opinion of a third doctor. AUTOTEC, Corp. and the employee will mutually select the third doctor, and 
AUTOTEC, Corp. will pay for the opinion. This third opinion will be considered final. The employee will be 
provisionally entitled to leave and benefits under the FMLA pending the second and/or third opinion. 
CERTIFICATION FOR THE FAMILY MEMBER’S SERIOUS HEALTH CONDITION
AUTOTEC, Corp. will require certification for the family member’s serious health condition. The 
employee must respond to such a request within 15 days of the request or provide a reasonable 
explanation for the delay. Failure to provide certification may result in a denial of continuation of leave. 
Medical certification will be provided using the DOL Certification of Health Care Provider for Family 
Member’s Serious Health Condition.
AUTOTEC, Corp. may directly contact the employee’s family member’s health care provider for 
verification or clarification purposes using a health care professional, an HR professional, leave 
administrator or management official. AUTOTEC, Corp. will not use the employee’s direct supervisor for 
this contact. Before AUTOTEC, Corp. makes this direct contact with the health care provider, the 
employee will be a given an opportunity to resolve any deficiencies in the medical certification. 
In compliance with HIPAA Medical Privacy Rules, AUTOTEC, Corp. will obtain the employee’s family 
member’s permission for clarification of individually identifiable health information. 
AUTOTEC, Corp. has the right to ask for a second opinion if it has reason to doubt the certification. 
AUTOTEC, Corp. will pay for the employee’s family member to get a certification from a second doctor, 
which AUTOTEC, Corp. will select. 
AUTOTEC, Corp. may deny FMLA leave to an employee whose family member refuses to release relevant 
medical records to the health care provider designated to provide a second or third opinion. If necessary 
to resolve a conflict between the original certification and the second opinion, AUTOTEC, Corp. will 
require the opinion of a third doctor. AUTOTEC, Corp. and the employee will mutually select the third 
doctor, and AUTOTEC, Corp. will pay for the opinion. This third opinion will be considered final. The 
employee will be provisionally entitled to leave and benefits under the FMLA pending the second and/or 
third opinion.
CERTIFICATION OF QUALIFYING EXIGENCY FOR MILITARY FAMILY LEAVE
AUTOTEC, Corp. will require certification of the qualifying exigency for military family leave. The 
employee must respond to such a request within 15 days of the request or provide a reasonable 
explanation for the delay. Failure to provide certification may result in a denial of continuation of leave. 
This certification will be provided using the DOL Certification of Qualifying Exigency for Military Family 
Leave.
CERTIFICATION FOR SERIOUS INJURY OR ILLNESS OF COVERED SERVICEMEMBER FOR MILITARY 
FAMILY LEAVE
AUTOTEC, Corp. will require certification for the serious injury or illness of the covered service member 
or covered veteran. The employee must respond to such a request within 15 days of the request or 
provide a reasonable explanation for the delay. Failure to provide certification may result in a denial of 
continuation of leave. This certification will be provided using the DOL Certification for Serious Injury or 
Illness of Covered Service member or the DOL Certification for Serious Injury or Illness of a Veteran for 
Military Caregiver Leave.
AUTOTEC, Corp. may request recertification for the serious health condition of the employee or the 
employee’s family member no more frequently than every 30 days and only when circumstances have 
changed significantly, or if the employee receives information casting doubt on the reason given for the 
absence, or if the employee seeks an extension of his or her leave. Otherwise, AUTOTEC, Corp. may 
request recertification for the serious health condition of the employee or the employee’s family 
member every six months in connection with an FMLA absence. AUTOTEC, Corp. may provide the 
employee’s health care provider with the employee’s attendance records and ask whether need for 
leave is consistent with the employee’s serious health condition. 
 INTERMITTENT LEAVE OR A REDUCED WORK SCHEDULE 
The employee may take FMLA leave in 12 consecutive weeks, may use the leave intermittently (take a 
day periodically when needed over the year) or, under certain circumstances, may use the leave to 
reduce the workweek or workday, resulting in a reduced hour schedule. In all cases, the leave may not 
exceed a total of 12 workweeks (or 26 workweeks to care for an injured or ill service member or veteran 
over a 12-month period). 
AUTOTEC, Corp. may temporarily transfer an employee to an available alternative position with 
equivalent pay and benefits if the alternative position would better accommodate the intermittent or 
reduced schedule, in instances of when leave for the employee or employee's family member is 
foreseeable and for planned medical treatment, including recovery from a serious health condition or to 
care for a child after birth, or placement for adoption or foster care. 
 For the birth, adoption or foster care of a child, the company and the employee must mutually agree to 
the schedule before the employee may take the leave intermittently or work a reduced hour schedule. 
Leave for birth, adoption or foster care of a child must be taken within one year of the birth or 
placement of the child. 
If the employee is taking leave for a serious health condition or because of the serious health condition 
of a family member, the employee should try to reach agreement with AUTOTEC, Corp. before taking 
intermittent leave or working a reduced hour schedule. If this is not possible, then the employee must 
prove that the use of the leave is medically necessary. 
USE OF PAID AND UNPAID LEAVE 
An employee who is taking FMLA leave because of the employee's own serious health condition or the 
serious health condition of a family member must use all paid vacation, personal or sick leave prior to 
being eligible for unpaid leave. Sick leave may be run concurrently with FMLA leave if the reason for the 
FMLA leave is covered by the established sick leave policy. 
Disability leave for the birth of the child and for an employee's serious health condition, including 
workers' compensation leave (to the extent that it qualifies), will be designated as FMLA leave and will 
run concurrently with FMLA. For example, if an employer provides six weeks of pregnancy disability 
leave, the six weeks will be designated as FMLA leave and counted toward the employee's 12-week 
entitlement. The employee may then be required to substitute accrued (or earned) paid leave as 
appropriate before being eligible for unpaid leave for what remains of the 12-week entitlement. An 
employee who is taking leave for the adoption or foster care of a child must use all paid vacation, 
personal or family leave prior to being eligible for unpaid leave. 
An employee who is using military FMLA leave for a qualifying exigency must use all paid vacation and 
personal leave prior to being eligible for unpaid leave. An employee using FMLA military caregiver leave 
must also use all paid vacation, personal leave or sick leave (as long as the reason for the absence is 
covered by the company’s sick leave policy) prior to being eligible for unpaid leave. 
EMPLOYEE STATUS AND BENEFITS DURING LEAVE 
While an employee is on leave, the company will continue the employee's health benefits during the 
leave period at the same level and under the same conditions as if the employee had continued to work. 
Inactive employees cannot remain on the policy for longer than six months.
If the employee chooses not to return to work for reasons other than a continued serious health 
condition of the employee or the employee's family member or a circumstance beyond the employee's 
control, AUTOTEC, Corp. will require the employee to reimburse the company the amount it paid for the 
employee's health insurance premium during the leave period. 
Under current company policy, the employee pays a portion of the health care premium. While on paid 
leave, AUTOTEC, Corp. will continue to make payroll deductions to collect the employee's share of the 
premium. 
While on unpaid leave, the employee must continue to make this payment, either in person or by mail. 
The payment must be received by the Human Resources Manager by the fifteenth (15th) day of each 
month. If the payment is more than 30 days late, the employee's health care coverage may be dropped 
for the duration of the leave. AUTOTEC, Corp. will provide 15 days' notification prior to the employee's 
loss of coverage. 
If the employee contributes to a life insurance or disability plan, AUTOTEC, Corp. will continue making 
payroll deductions while the employee is on paid leave. While the employee is on unpaid leave, the 
employee may request continuation of such benefits and pay his or her portion of the premiums, or 
AUTOTEC, Corp. may elect to maintain such benefits during the leave and pay the employee's share of 
the premium payments. If the employee does not continue these payments, the employer may 
discontinue coverage during the leave. If AUTOTEC, Corp. maintains coverage, AUTOTEC, Corp. may 
recover the costs incurred for paying the employee's share of any premiums, whether or not the 
employee returns to work. 
 EMPLOYEE STATUS AFTER LEAVE 
An employee who takes leave under this policy may be asked to provide a fitness for duty (FFD) 
clearance from the health care provider. This requirement will be included in AUTOTEC, Corp.’s response 
to the FMLA request. Generally, an employee who takes FMLA leave will be able to return to the same 
position or a position with equivalent status, pay, benefits and other employment terms. The position 
will be the same or one which is virtually identical in terms of pay, benefits and working conditions. 
AUTOTEC, Corp. may choose to exempt certain key employees from this requirement and not return 
them to the same or similar position. 
INTENT TO RETURN TO WORK FROM FMLA LEAVE
On a basis that does not discriminate against employees on FMLA leave, AUTOTEC, Corp. may require an 
employee on FMLA leave to report periodically on the employee’s status and intent to return to work.

MILITARY LEAVE

An unpaid military leave of absence will be granted to employees, except those occupying temporary 
positions, to attend scheduled drills or training or if called to active duty with the US Armed Services.

If you enter into active service in the US Armed Services, you will automatically be granted a leave of 
absence with no loss of seniority.  Every effort will be made to reinstate you, in your previous position, 
upon completion of active military service.  Your reinstatement rights are governed by federal 
regulations and require that you meet the following guidelines:

1.	You must have been honorably discharged, and

2.	You must reapply for work within ninety (90) days of release.

BEREAVEMENT DAYS

If an employee wishes to take time off due to the death of an immediate family member, the employee 
should notify his or her supervisor immediately.  Up to three (3) days of paid bereavement leave will be 
provided to regular full or part time employees who have completed 30 days of work.

Bereavement pay is calculated based on the base pay rate at the time of absence and will not include 
any special forms of compensation, such as incentives, commissions, bonuses, or shift differentials.  Any 
employee may, with the supervisor's approval, use vacation leave for additional time off as necessary.  
The bereavement allowance is to reimburse the employee for working days lost; therefore, it does not 
apply if the employee is on lay-off, sick leave, vacation, or leave of absence.

Autotec defines "immediate family" as the employee's spouse, parent, child, sibling or in-law.  Should 
the death of a relative not in the above categories occur, an employee will be given one day off, without 
pay, to attend the funeral.  Autotec reserves the right to adjust this policy.

JURY DUTY

Autotec encourages employees to fulfill their civic responsibilities by serving jury duty when required.  
The Company will pay the amount the employee would otherwise have been paid for time worked on 
the days of absence, up to eight (8) hours per day.  Employees who have completed their 30 days qualify 
for paid jury duty leave.

Employees must inform their supervisor as soon as possible of their selection for jury duty so that the 
supervisor may make arrangements to accommodate their absence.  Of course, employees are expected 
to report for work whenever the court schedule permits.

Either Autotec or the employee may request an excuse from jury duty if, in Autotec’s judgment, the 
employee's absence would create serious operational difficulties.  Autotec will continue to provide 
health insurance benefits for the full term of the jury duty absence.  Vacation, sick leave, and holiday 
benefits will continue to accrue during jury duty leave.

EMPLOYMENT TERMINATION

Termination of employment is an inevitable part of personnel activity within any organization.  Below 
are examples of some of the most common circumstances under which employment is terminated:

RESIGNATION - employment termination initiated by an employee who chooses to leave the 
organization voluntarily.  Autotec requests at least two weeks written resignation notice from all 
employees.  If an employee does not provide advance notice as requested, the employee will be 
considered ineligible for re-hire.

DISCHARGE - employment termination initiated by the organization.

RETIREMENT - voluntary retirement from active employment status initiated by the employee.

FOLLOWING FMLA – If an employee extends their FMLA longer than 12 weeks, it is Autotec’s right to 
terminate the employer/employee relationship.


RETURN OF PROPERTY

Employees are responsible for all property, materials, or written information, including the Employee 
Handbook, issued to them or in their possession or control.  The employee must return all Autotec 
property on or before their last day of work.  Where permitted by applicable laws, Autotec may 
withhold from the employee's check or final paycheck the cost of any items that are not returned when 
required.  Autotec may also take all action deemed appropriate to recover or protect its property.


EMPLOYEE CONDUCT AND WORK RULES

To assure orderly operations and provide the best possible work environment, Autotec expects 
employees to follow rules of conduct that will protect the interests and safety of all employees and the 
organization.

It is not possible to list all the forms of behavior that are considered unacceptable in the workplace.  The 
following are examples of infractions of rules of conduct that may result in disciplinary action, up to and 
including termination of employment.
Theft or inappropriate removal or possession of property.
Falsification of time keeping records.
Working under the influence of alcohol or illegal drugs.
Possession, distribution, sale, transfer, or use of alcohol or illegal drugs in the workplace, while on 
duty, or while operating employer-owned vehicles or equipment.
Negligence or improper conduct leading to damage of employer-owned or customer-owned 
property.
Insubordination or other disrespectful conduct.
Violation of safety or health rules.
Horseplay and fighting.
Smoking 
Sexual or other unlawful harassment.
Possession of dangerous or unauthorized materials, such as explosives or firearms, in the workplace.
Excessive absenteeism or any absences without notice.
Unauthorized absence from workstation during the workday.
Unauthorized disclosure of confidential information.

Employment with Autotec is at the mutual consent of Autotec and the employee, and either party may 
terminate that relationship at any time, with or without cause, and with or without advance notice.


DRUG AND ALCOHOL USE

From a humanitarian point of view, the Company is committed to maintaining a drug-free workplace.  
The Company intends to treat drug dependencies (which include alcoholism) as it does any other 
handicap or disability.  We encourage employees with substance abuse problems to get treatment at 
the earliest opportunity, before problems adversely impact on-the-job performance.

The Company reserves the right to conduct substance screening whenever an employee's performance, 
mental alertness or coordination appears to be impaired as a result of drugs or alcohol.


HARASSMENT POLICY

All Harassment is Prohibited
Autotec values a professional environment where each employee is treated with respect and dignity.  
Autotec expressly prohibits any form of harassment based on race, color, religion, gender, national 
origin, age, handicap, or status as a veteran, Vietnam-era or special disabled veteran.  Interference with 
the ability of our employees to perform their expected job duties is not tolerated.  Any employee who is 
found, after appropriate investigation, to have engaged in harassment will be subject to prompt 
disciplinary action, up to and including termination.  This policy applies to workplace conduct, conduct 
at company functions, and to employees at all levels and positions within the company.


Sexual Harassment
It is impossible to list all behaviors that constitute sexual harassment.  Generally, sexual harassment is 
unwelcome sexual behavior.  Both males and females can be guilty of sexual harassment.

With respect to sexual harassment prohibited behaviors include:

1.	Unwelcome sexual advances, requests for sexual favors, and all other verbal or physical 
conduct of a sexual or otherwise offensive nature, especially where
?	Submission to such conduct is made either explicitly or implicitly a term or condition 
of employment;
?	Submission to or rejection of such conduct is used as the basis for decisions 
affecting an individual’s employment;  or
?	Such conduct has the purpose or effect of creating an intimidating, hostile, or 
offensive working environment.
2.	Verbal abuse, offensive gestures or leering, sexually degrading words, offensive comments, 
jokes, innuendoes, sexual content added to work-related conversations, and other sexually 
oriented statements.
3.	Graphic, degrading, condescending, or suggestive comments about an individual’s body.
4.	Unwanted flirtations, propositions, or physical contact or any threats of undesired contact.  
Repeated invitations when the recipient has indicated that he or she is not interested.
5.	The display, downloading, or viewing of sexually suggestive materials, language, drawings, 
posters, or pictures physically or through computers or e-mail.
6.	Improper questions about an employee’s private life.
7.	Circulating, downloading, displaying or disseminating material (electronically or otherwise) 
which ridicules a gender or which is sexually suggestive, regardless of whether it is directed 
at specific individuals.
8.	Retaliation against an employee for complaining about prohibited behaviors.

Harassment Complaint Procedure

Employees are expected to treat their co-workers with respect and to refrain from any conduct that may 
be construed as harassment.  If you experience or witness any job-related harassment based on your 
sex, your race, or any other factor, or if you believe you have been treated in an unlawful, discriminatory 
manner, it is your responsibility to promptly report the incident to your supervisor, manager, or to the 
President.  Your complaint will be kept confidential to the extent possible.

All employees are expected to cooperate in investigations of harassment complaints by providing 
truthful information in response to any inquiry.  Autotec prohibits any form of retaliation against any 
employee for filing a truthful complaint under this policy or for assisting in a complaint investigation.  
Retaliation may result in disciplinary action, up to and including termination.  However, if after 
investigating any complaint of harassment the Company should determine that the complaint was 
untruthful or that an employee has provided false information regarding the complaint, disciplinary 
action, up to and including termination, may be taken against the individual who filed the untruthful 
complaint or who gave the false information.

We will investigate any claims of harassment promptly, impartially, thoroughly, and, to the extent 
possible, confidentially.  If an employee is not satisfied with the way a complaint is handled, he or she 
should bring this to the attention of the President.  In all cases, the employee will be advised of the 
conclusion of the investigation.

THREATS AND VIOLENCE

Our company has a no-tolerance policy for violence or threats of violence.  We strive to maintain a safe 
work environment free from intimidation, threats, or violent acts.  This includes, but is not limited to, 
intimidating, threatening or hostile behaviors, physical assault or abuse, vandalism, arson, sabotage, use 
of weapons, carrying weapons onto company property, or any other act, which, in management’s 
opinion is inappropriate to the workplace.  In addition, bizarre or offensive comments regarding violent 
events and/or behavior are not tolerated.  Under no circumstances are the following items permitted on 
company property, including parking areas:  firearms, knives, dangerous chemicals, explosives (including 
blasting caps), or any other objects carried or used for the purpose of injuring or intimidating.

Employees who feel subjected to any of the behaviors listed above should immediately report the 
incident to any supervisor or human resources representative.  Complaints will receive attention and the 
situation will be investigated.  Based upon the results of the inquiry, or direct observation disciplinary 
action, up to and including termination, will be taken against the offender, if management feels it is 
appropriate.  Law enforcement authorities will be involved as needed.

Employees who observe or have knowledge of any violation of this policy should immediately report it 
to management.  We will act when unforeseen events occur and look to employees for support of this 
policy.  For unforeseen, emergency events, employees should always contact proper law enforcement 
authorities, without any need to first inform any level of management, if they believe there is any 
threat to personal safety.

SMOKING

Autotec is committed to providing a safe, healthy, and pleasant work environment for all employees.  
We are genuinely concerned about the documented health hazards of smoking and passive smoke 
inhalation.  Therefore, Autotec is a non-smoking facility – this includes e-cigarettes and smokeless 
tobacco. Smoking is only permitted in designated areas.  

ATTENDANCE AND PUNCTUALITY

To maintain a safe and productive work environment, Autotec expects employees to be reliable and to 
be punctual in reporting for scheduled work.  Absenteeism and tardiness place a burden on other 
employees and on Autotec.  In the rare instances when employees cannot avoid being late to work or 
are unable to work as scheduled, they should notify their supervisor within the first hour of the workday 
of the anticipated tardiness or absence.


WEATHER EMERGENCIES

In the event of an emergency or bad weather, you may be asked to report to work.  Employees, not 
essential to the operation, may be instructed to stay at home.  The nature of our work means we have 
deadlines, and our staffing needs will be based on such needs.

When a weather emergency occurs, we may be forced to close.  If weather deteriorates during the day, 
you may be allowed to leave early, depending on the severity of the weather condition and the urgency 
of our work.  When time off is necessary during weather emergencies sick or vacation time can be used 
for pay. 

If you are asked to report for work, please remember:  UNDER NO CIRCUMSTANCE should you risk 
accident or injury to report to work.  Your personal safety is our greatest concern.

PERSONAL APPEARANCE

Dress, grooming, and personal cleanliness standards contribute to morale of all employees and affect 
the business image Autotec presents to customers and visitors.

During business hours, employees are expected to present a clean and neat appearance and to dress 
according to the requirements of their positions.  Employees who appear for work inappropriately 
dressed will be sent home and directed to return to work in proper attire.  Under such circumstances, 
employees will not be compensated for the time away from work.

Consult your supervisor or department head if you have questions as to what constitutes appropriate 
attire.  See dress code addendum for specific requirements.


BRIBES, KICK-BACKS AND OTHER ILLEGAL PAYMENTS

Bribes, kick-backs and other illegal payments to or from any individual with whom we conduct business 
(in any form and for any purpose) are prohibited.

TECHNOLOGY POLICY

The use of technology is important to the efficiency of our work.  To assure we have reliable 
equipment, and to use it properly, you must follow the following policy:

A. Equipment

The electronic equipment [computers, fax, telephone system, etc.] is sensitive.  Only those trained 
and assigned may engage in repair work or authorize service.  No equipment may leave the 
Company property without specific approval from your immediate Supervisor.  No software may be 
placed in computers that has not been authorized, and is not work-related.  No employee may copy 
computer programs or other files from the Company equipment for personal use, or to be 
transmitted to an unauthorized third party.  This includes correspondence, price lists, databases, 
formulae, customer files, and custom or commercial computer software.

Unauthorized duplication of confidential records will be considered theft, and may cause 
termination and/or prosecution.  Tampering with, damaging or disabling equipment is forbidden, 
and may result in termination or prosecution for illegal acts.

No employee may enter or attempt to enter the operating system of the company computers for 
the purpose of altering the system functions.  This includes efforts to disable or suspend any 
program, including filters and firewalls.

B.  E-Mail/Voicemail

1.  The E-mail and voicemail system is provided for efficient conduct of business.  It is Company 
property.

2.  All compositions and messages sent, or received, on E-mail and voicemail system become the 
property of the Company.

3.  The E-mail and voicemail system is solely for Company use.

4.   No person may use the E-mail or voicemail system for business ventures [except our 
Company business], for religious, political or other non-job related purposes.

5.  Messages sent through E-mail and voicemail must not be disruptive, defaming or offensive.  
This includes profanity, racial slurs, and derogatory comments about
      gender, age, sexual orientation, religious beliefs, political affiliation, national origin, 
disability, accent or manner of dress.  The Company is committed to a workplace free of 
hostility and offensive behavior.

6.  The E-mail and voicemail system may not be used to send or receive proprietary materials, 
trade secrets, financial information, or other unauthorized or illegal documents.

7.   Passwords will not guarantee confidentiality.  Only company assigned passwords may be 
used in company equipment.

8.  The Company reserves the right to access any computer at any time to see any
     and all information created, sent, received or stored.

9.  Erasing files does not guarantee they will not be retrieved.

10. Employees may not enter unauthorized files [including E-mail boxes].  When access occurs, 
whether intentional or not, the information must be treated with 
       confidentiality.

11. No employee may create, send, receive or store information using a password that has not 
been approved by the Company.

12. Employees who discover a violation of the technology policy should notify management.

13. Employees who violate the E-mail policy may face severe consequences, including 
termination or prosecution [for illegal acts].

C.  Internet

1.  The Company access to the Internet is for business purposes.

2.  Employees may not access the Internet for personal reasons [to browse, research, buy, sell, 
trade or to be entertained] unless the company specifically grants permission for non-work 
use.  Under such circumstances access is specific and must never be used for any unlawful 
or inappropriate purpose.

3.  No employee may access a web site that is not authorized.

4.  Under no circumstance may employees access and/or display a web site that could be 
offensive to a reasonable person.

5.  Printing or downloading any unauthorized information from web sites is strictly forbidden.

6.	No employee may create an Internet blog that involves the use of the company’s name in 
any way

7.	Violations of the internet policy can result in severe consequences, including discharge.  

8.	Criminal prosecution may result if illegal acts occur using Company equipment or telephone 
service.


D.  Cell Phone

Autotec recognizes that cell phones have become an integral part of everyday life. They are a great 
asset if used correctly for productivity. Autotec discourages excessive use of cell phones for non-
work related activities during business hours. 

SOLICITATION

In an effort to assure a productive and harmonious work environment, persons not employed by 
Autotec may not solicit or distribute literature in the workplace at any time for any purpose.

Autotec recognizes that employees may have interests in events and organizations outside the 
workplace.  However, employees may not solicit or distribute literature concerning these activities 
during working time. (Working time does not include lunch periods, work breaks, or any other periods 
during which employees are not on duty.)

PROBLEM RESOLUTION PROCEDURE

Autotec endorses an "open door" policy where management and non-management employees can 
openly discuss and resolve work-related issues.  We recognize that on occasion issues arise that may 
need to be resolved utilizing a more structured approach.  The following steps should be taken to 
address a formal complaint relative to a work-related issue:

1.	Discuss the matter with your immediate supervisor.  If the issue is not resolved, proceed to the 
next step.  While we encourage this step, it is not mandatory if you feel uncomfortable 
discussing the problem with your supervisor.

2.	If you are not satisfied with the results obtained through your supervisor, you are encouraged to 
discuss the matter with the Vice President or President.

Employees who utilize this procedure can do so without fear of reprisal and are assured that the 
discussions are conducted, to the extent possible, in the strictest of confidence.

SAFETY

Nothing is more important than the safety of every employee at Autotec.  Each employee is expected to 
follow all applicable safety precautions at all times.  If you are unsure of the appropriate safety 
precautions, ask your supervisor for clarification.

Each employee is expected to obey safety rules and to exercise caution in all work activities.  Employees 
must immediately report any unsafe condition to the appropriate supervisor. Employees who violate 
safety standards, who cause hazardous or dangerous situations, or who fail to report or, where 
appropriate, remedy such situations, may be subject to disciplinary action, up to and including 
termination of employment.

In the case of accidents that result in injury, regardless of how insignificant the injury may appear, 
employees should immediately notify their immediate supervisor and file an accident report with the 
Director of Human Resources.  Such reports are necessary to comply with laws and initiate insurance 
and Workers' Compensation benefits procedures.

SHOP SAFETY

It is important that safety precautions be exercised at all times, including but not limited to:
   Presence and status in the facility(s):
*	Always make sure someone is aware of your presence in the facility(s)
*	There should always be more than one person in the facility 
*	Someone should always know your location and status 


*	Use of safety glasses, goggles, gloves, etc. as required, depending on the operation being 
performed;

*	Observe good working practices;  proper tools, speeds, feeds, etc.;

*	Respect the safety of your fellow worker, no "horseplay" will be tolerated;

*	Place used rags or wiping cloths in proper receptacle;

*	Use good "lifting" practices to avoid injury;

*	Observe the specified limits of all equipment; and

*	Know the locations, contents, and use of First Aid and firefighting equipment.

*	Follow lock-out, tag-out procedures

Work Area

*	Keep your immediate work area neat and clean;

*	Replace tools after use;  and

*	When done with a particular machine, clean immediate area for a fresh start for the next user.

TOOLING

When an employee takes an end mill out of the cabinet or office, it should be returned as soon as they 
have finished using it.  Company tools should never be locked in employee toolboxes.  If a special cutter, 
tap, or drill is needed for a job, please leave it out where other employees can also use it.

USE OF EQUIPMENT AND VEHICLES

When using Company property, employees are expected to exercise care, perform required 
maintenance, and follow all operating instructions, safety standards, and guidelines.  Please notify the 
supervisor if any equipment, machines, tools, or vehicles appear to be damaged, defective, or in need of 
repair.

Prompt reporting of damages, defects, and the need for repairs could prevent deterioration of 
equipment and possible injury to employees or others.  Supervisors can answer any questions about an 
employee's responsibility for maintenance and care of equipment or vehicles used on the job.
1

                                                                                     AUTOTEC EMPLOYEE HANDBOOK
                                                                                                     Last Revised October 2022


Autotec Solutions	Page 1	Confidential
